Congresswoman Cathy Rodgers, Congressman Aaron Schock, Congresswoman Cynthia Loomis, other members of the Delegation from the USA, Ladies and Gentlemen !
It gives me immense pleasure to welcome the delegation led by three leading members of the US Congress. I welcome you all to India and to Gujarat. It is a rare occasion to which I attach lot of value.
I have been saying that the USA is the oldest democracy of the world. At the same time, India is the largest democracy on the earth. Moreover, both the countries remain committed to these principles. Our democratic ideals flow from the ideals of humanity. In today’s world, the challenges before us compel us to work together even more seriously to strengthen the Democratic principles.

There are various forces challenging the safety and security of mankind on a day to day basis. I believe that the time has come that all humanitarian forces should reiterate their faith in human values.  They should also unite in the fight against the biggest threat to us which is Terrorism. The issue of poverty and unemployment is another major challenge before a large section of the global population. Moreover, there are environmental issues, which are important for well being of the present and future generations.
We have to strengthen the processes of democracy with the aim of larger good of the larger number of people. Mahatma Gandhi has been and is the biggest light house in this journey.
Gujarat, the land of Mahatma Gandhi, believes in these principles even more earnestly. It has been at the forefront of nurturing such ideals and leading its people to grow on this very path.
Particularly, in recent years, Gujarat State has adopted faster and yet inclusive and environment friendly process of development. People’s participation is the key to our development model. With hard work, we have been able to create an impact in the country.
However, there is a lot which has to be still done. Gujarat is ready to work with dedication and work with the rest of the world to make further impact in these fields.
Gujarat has been a global community. Our people have learnt a lot and have received lot of love and affection across the globe. We are keen to return the same love and affection to the world. This creates a common platform for creative forces.
We have organizations like the National Indian American Coalition (Neeyak) under the leadership of Mr. Shalabh Kumar. They can help us greatly in this process. Let us come together and work together to make the life of our people better.
Once again, I welcome you to Gujarat and India. I hope your stay here will be comfortable and fruitful. I am sure, your visit here will help improve the understanding and relations between India and USA. Gujarat has substantial business linkage with the USA.  Also, we have a sizeable population living there. Our coming together will have a positive impact in terms of confidence building among our people and businesses.
I am grateful to the three parliamentarians for making a good beginning. We have to take this process forward. On my side, I am committed to work for the betterment of lives and relationships of the global community.
Thank You! 
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi arrived in Herat, Afghanistan on the first leg of his 5 nation tour. PM will jointly inaugurate the Afghanistan-India Friendship Dam with President Ashraf Ghani at Herat.
Upon arrival, the PM tweeted, “Reached Herat in Afghanistan. Will attend the programme for inauguration of Salma Dam and meet President Ashraf Ghani.
Reached Herat in Afghanistan. Will attend the programme for inauguration of Salma Dam & meet President @ashrafghani. pic.twitter.com/rKTNxUt3sL
