
नमस्‍ते साथियों! 26 नवम्‍बर, 1949, आज ही के दिन भारत के संविधान को स्‍वीकृति दी गई थी। भारत सरकार ने इसे संविधान दिवस के रूप में हर वर्ष मनाने का निर्णय किया है। देश भर में संविधान के प्रति जागरूकता बढ़े, विद्यार्थियों में भी संविधान के Preamble का पाठ हो और एक सहज अपने स्‍वभाव का हिस्‍सा बने धीरे-धीरे, यह हमारा प्रयास है। यह भी सौभाग्‍य है कि संविधान निर्माण में जिस महापुरुष की अहम भूमिका रही वो बाबा साहेब आम्‍बेडकर की 125वीं जयंती का यह वर्ष है और इसलिए संयोग भी बहुत ही प्रेरक है और इसी निमित्‍त आपने देखा होगा, यह संसद भवन का परिसर बहुत ही चमक रहा है इन दिनों और मुझे विश्‍वास है कि सत्र के दरमियान भी उत्‍तम विचारों से, उत्‍तम चर्चा से, उत्‍तम नए-नए innovative ideas से भीतर सदन भी उतना ही चमकता रहेगा।
कल मेरी सभी दलों के महानुभावों के साथ मुलाकात हुई। बहुत अच्‍छी बातें हुईं, अच्‍छे वातावरण में बातें हुईं और सबका एक स्‍वर से मत रहा था कि सदन उत्‍तम तरीके से चलाया जाए। सदन से बड़ा कोई संवाद का केन्‍द्र नहीं हो सकता है। वाद हो, विवाद हो, संवाद हो यही संसद की आत्‍मा है। बाकी कामों के लिए तो पूरे देश का मैदान available है और मुझे खुशी हुई कि सभी दलों ने वाद-विवाद और संवाद के लिए सकारात्‍मक दृष्‍टिकोण प्रस्‍तुत किया है और मुझे आशा है कि देश संसद के पास जो अपेक्षा कर रहा है, हम सभी सांसद मिलकर के उन अपेक्षाओं को पूर्ण करने में कोई कमी नहीं रखेंगे।
आज 26 नवम्‍बर, संविधान का दिवस है। हमारा संविधान It’s a ray of hope, एक आशा की किरण है, पथ दर्शक है। हमारे मार्ग को लगातार प्रकाशित करता रहता है और जब मैं hope कहता हूं तो hope का मेरा मतलब है, H for Harmony, O for Opportunity, P for People’s participation, E for Equality. बधुत-बहुत धन्‍यवाद दोस्‍तों।
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be visiting Afghanistan, State of Qatar, Switzerland, United States of America and Mexico from June 4, 2016 to June 8, 2016. In a series of posts from his Facebook Account, the Prime Minister said:  “Looking forward to my visit to Afghanistan tomorrow. I will join President Ashraf Ghani to inaugurate Afghanistan-India Friendship Dam in Herat. It is symbol of our friendship and would usher in hope, light up homes, nourish the fertile fields of Herat and bring prosperity to the people of the region. Look forward to meet my friend President Ashraf Ghani and exchange notes on regional situation and setting agenda for bilateral cooperation in the coming period. I will be visiting the State of Qatar on 4th & 5th June at the invitation of His Highness the Emir of Qatar. Look forward to meeting His Highness Sheikh Tamim whose landmark visit to India last year had ushered in a new momentum in our relations. I will have the honour to meet Father Emir who personally guided our relations for nearly two decades. This visit will nourish the historical bonds of friendship deeply rooted in people to people contacts, energy, trade and investment partnership. I will interact with the Indian workers at the Workers’ Camp and some of the members of over 6 lakh Indians who have nurtured our relations through their sweat and toil. Will also speak to Qatar business leaders to realise the full potential of our trade and investment cooperation. I will reach Geneva in the evening of 5th June on a bilateral visit to Switzerland, our key partner in Europe. I will hold talks with President Schneider-Ammann to deepen our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. In Geneva, I will meet prominent businesspersons. Our agenda will be to expand economic and investment ties. I will meet Indian scientists working at CERN. India takes pride in their contribution to exploring new frontiers of science in the service of humanity. I will be reaching Washington DC on a bilateral visit in the evening of 6th June at the invitation of President Barack Obama. In my meeting with the President on 7th June, we will seek to build upon the progress achieved in providing new vigour and momentum to our strategic partnership in diverse areas. Am looking forward to address the 40th AGM of the USIBC and meet US business leaders who have, over the past two years, shown renewed confidence in the India. I will exchange views with US think-tanks and attend a ceremony marking the return of Indian antiques. During my visit to Arlington Cemetery I will lay wreaths at the Tomb of the Unknown Solider and Space Shuttle Columbia Memorial, in which we lost an Indian origin astronaut, Kalpana Chawla. On 8th June, I will address a Joint Meeting of the US Congress. I thank Speaker Paul Ryan for inviting me to speak to Congressmen and Senators. During my visit to the US Capitol, I will also interact with members of the House of Representatives and the Senate, many of whom have been valued friends of India and a strong votaries of deepening India-USA ties. India and USA are natural partners, two vibrant democracies that celebrate their diversity and pluralism. Strong India-USA ties benefit not only our two nations but also the entire world. I look forward to meeting President Peña Nieto on June 8 during my visit to Mexico, a privileged partner in the Latin American region. President Peña Nieto has ushered in far reaching reforms. I look forward to sharing our experiences. This is the first Prime Ministerial bilateral visit to Mexico after 30 years. Though short, the visit has a substantial agenda to take our partnership to new heights."
