Date : 4th January, 2012


The President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Gujarat Region, Respected Shri Ranchhodbhai Faldu, Shri Rupalaji, all the Leaders, Party Workers, Brothers &  Sisters…
I congratulate all my friends of Bakshi Panch Morcha that they have undertaken the challenge to save the nation. Friends, this program may not be very grand but those who are present here may not have the idea that how it can affect the life of the whole nation. And that is why I said that leaders of Bakshi Panch Morcha have undertaken the challenge to save the nation. Friends, this vote bank politics has ruined the country. It has been 60 years now… many small nations, which got freedom after that of India, have achieved so much and this nation with 120 billions is still fighting poverty. Whose sin? Just because of politics of grabbing the chair; just because of hunger for power; just because of ballot boxes. These are the reasons for such miserable condition in the country. There was time when these people took advantage of this Bakshi Panch to just to get into the power in Gujarat by applying the theory of KHAM. And now, when their purpose is served, they have been thrown into the dustbin and new politics has been started by using other people. Friends, Bakshi Panch has been discarded for them after getting squeezed fully, just like a sugar cane. Till date everything was done on its support and now throwing them away… What a conspiracy?
Brothers & Sisters, just look at the two fundamental changes, see the inversion, see two different faces. We have seen the nation for sixty years, we have constantly experienced for sixty years this douvble face. And if we need to put in one sentence, we can say ‘divide and rule’. This was the only path. Our character is different, our dreams are different. For us, the nation is supreme to all. Which path we took? That ofSabka Saath, Sabka Vikas (‘Participation by all, for development of all’.) Their path was ‘divide and rule’, while our path is ‘participation by all, for development of all.’ Their path is communal enmity; conflict and agitation among people of different communities by spreading rumors. Our path, we constantly chant the Mantra, ‘Six Crore Gujaratis’. Can’t there be development by unity? But they do not have vision for development. They are not ready to work hard for development. Therefore, they do not have trust in development, they just play game of politics on the basis of vote bank to snatch the power.
Brothers & Sisters, let Gujarat fight against this menace of divisive politics! Can’t we progress together? In the team who designed the Constitution of India, no one was from Jan Sangh, BJP, RSS, VHP or Bajarang Dal. Everyone was attached to Congress, all were acquainted with Congress and they had collectively decided that reservation on the basis of religion should never be introduced in this country. We are not saying this, the creators of the Constitution said that if there will be reservation on the basis of religion, this country will get divided into pieces. And don’t think that this is going to end here. The day they declared about 4.5% reservation, one of their leaders declared that if we will win in Uttar Pradesh, we will extend this to 8%. Will there be anything left for you, Friends? Will the poverty among the poor be ascertained on the basis of religion? The jury of judges identified different communities as per the socio-economic reasons and the planning was done in such a manner that everybody gets equal opportunity. But now this does not fetch votes for you, why? Now the educated people among them have come to know that in this play of greed for power, their sixty years have been wasted, two-three generations have been ruined and they have awakened. Therefore, they have continued this politics of division.
Brothers & Sisters, what is the Mantra of ‘Sadbhavna’? On the very first day, I had said in my speech that this ‘Sadbhavna Mission’ is to ring the death bell of vote bank politics. Friends, this is a fight against vote bank politics because it will break the nation, ruin the nation. If we have to save the nation, the nation has to be united. The prime minister had brought a ‘Fifteen Point Program’ for the welfare of minority to win the election in 2009. They came into the power but that program did not move. They don’t get satisfied with all this. Their ballot boxes remain empty, so now they have brought something new. If their purpose will not get solved by this, they will bring something else. Somebody has to say, ‘STOP’! Isn’t it? This program is to say ‘STOP’! And if this continues… The bill for the ‘Women’s Reservation’ is pending for so many years, Friends. The bill for 50 % reservation in the Parliament and 33% reservation in the Assembly for women; so many Governments changed but such an important issue was not given attention. Why, because there is no guarantee of getting votes. There is hardly any scope for vote bank politics and the play is such that it will not fetch power for them so they don’t do it. The path of spreading the poison of racism which has been taken by the Congress will be dangerous for the nation as it will spread enmity among the people and will ruin the nation.
Just imagine, for so many years they played politics in the name of backward class but there were districts of Gujarat where there were no schools with science stream. Think about it, the regions which were inhabited by backward people, the undeveloped regions, the tribal regions, coastal regions... which were lacking behind without development. There were no schools with science stream in these districts even after 50 years of independence. Now, if there are no schools with science stream, how can children from there be Engineers or Doctors? And when there are no Engineers or Doctors, how can the vacancies are filled despite of Government advertising for the same? They have not done any fundamental work. Friends, no fundamental work has been done. We thought about solving these fundamental problems and Brothers & Sisters, I proudly want to say that we started schools with science stream in each and every district of Gujarat so that people residing in the remotest areas can also be part of the process of the development of the society. We have given them opportunity. There was a time when someone wanting admission in the engineering college used to feel that due to reservation I will lose my right. Person with reservation thinks that he will sail through as a result of reservation. There used to be clash among people. Friends, what was the reason? There was clash as there were only 13000 seats. We have increased it to 90000 and all the clash is over. Friends, this is called ‘participation by all for development of all.’ Friends, we thought about educating the poor. We decided that hundred percent of girls should go to school. Hundred percent of girls should be educated. Who does this 100% mean? Did we see any religion? Did we see any caste? Did we make any kind of discrimination? No, only one thing, that 100% of girls should go to school. Didn’t everybody get the benefit? Didn’t we include all? Didn’t we experience the development? They don’t want to take such steps. If this has to be done, one has to visit the remotest villages; without caring for the extreme weathers; to tell the parents over there to send their daughters to the school; as we want to get them educated. One has to work hard for this. This good deed is for educating the children in every part of society; be it Bakshi Panch, Muslim community or any other poor. But friends, they are not ready to take this path. Their nature is to divide the society. This is the need of the hour that we speak against it.
One scheme is active since the time of Indira Gandhi. It was started during the time of emergency to stay in the power. Twenty points program. As it was a program for the welfare of the poor, the next Government of Mararjibhai kept it ongoing. Even after that whoever came in power they kept it ongoing. The Government of India; every three months; takes state wise account to find out what is done for the welfare of the poor under this twenty points program. Then the Government of India publishes which of the states have performed more than 100%. Friends, the evaluation work of welfare scheme for the poor. The program was originally started by Indira Gandhi, was continued by all the governments including that of Atalaji, is still ongoing in the government of Manmohanji. Actually it is executed by the state government. Brothers & Sisters, I want to say with regret that in execution of this twenty points program for the welfare of the poor; none of the states have got rank where there is UPA government. Congress or its alliance parties have never stood among the first five. NDA government has ranked among the first five, BJP governments have ranked consistently high and Gujarat has always stood first. Who are these poor? They are people from Bakshi Panch society. Those people of the society who are not educated have remained poor. One day I raised this point in the meeting of NDC and asked them whether they will do anything or everything has to be done by few states? Do you have to just laze around? I put the results in front of them and opened their eyes. When their eyes were opened what they should have done? They should have put some efforts to bring improvements in their states. But they didn’t; what they did? They just stopped monitoring and giving ranks. Got something to say? They have stopped this since last eight months as it was insulting for them. I had proved this in presence of higher authority government officers and the Prime Minister. Their faults were exposed. All the facts and figures were published by them and I carried the papers published by the Government of India. So they decided that we need not to evaluate anything. Let the states do their own jobs. Brothers & Sisters, the review of Prime Minister’s fifteen point program for minority is published by the Government of India. In the best of the best category; which they call good category; there is only Gujarat’s name. They don’t want to do anything. They just want to play vote bank politics. Is it okay to cheat the lower society? There cannot be a bigger cheating than this. This Bakshi Panch is such a society which can tolerate anything but cheating. This society is such who would prefer to die than being cheated. These people have cheated on you, Friends. They have cheated the people of Bakshi Panch, they have ruined the future of youth in the Bakshi Panch. Are you ready to spoil the future of your children? If no, then you will have to fight against it, friends. You will have to make the government realize this.
They don’t even ask the states too…! Do you know what they do? They declare some schemes in the news papers with their pictures; once everything is praised they publish that in this scheme 20% share will be by Government of India and rest 80% will be that of state…! Have you seen anywhere that you are called up to receive trophy and when you go to receive it you are told that you will have to pay for that trophy… Our photos will be published but at your cost. They are playing the games of cheating on the states. They are cheating not only with you but with the states too. And what do they do with the states where there are their own governments? They will give 500 crore rupees from the back door in the name of any other program. UPA people get benefited and states with NDA get nothing. These types of games are played. The huge conflict going on Delhi is against this federal structure. Why Mamta Banerji has started her bugle. Central government has tried to harm the federal structure of India and that is why Mamta Banerji has raised her voice against it, their own people. Should we keep quiet friends?
Brothers & Sisters, this program doesn’t end here, this is just the beginning. Every village should make resolution; every society should collectively make resolutions. There are associations of every society; they should be explained the seriousness of this matter. Brothers & Sisters, this kind of act should not be allowed. This step is going to harm the harmony in the country. There should be welfare of all the poor without discrimination of religion or caste. Every poor should get the benefit; this is the mantra we should stick to. But this act of snatching the rights of someone can not be tolerated in this country.
Friends, I really pity the Congress Party. They don’t have any chance. They exist thanks to the media only, otherwise they get extinct. Newspaper persons keep asking that how long would you do the same thing again and again, these people say that please get it published. They know that it won’t matter, but they do print. Friends, how long can falsehood work? Friends, we were also in the opposition for not less than forty years. The workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party have worn off their lives in the opposition, but we never became such restless. A child in our home, if he wants something and doesn’t get, he starts jumping. Breaks his mom’s spects and tries to snatch from his father’s hand… isn’t it? The same thing is going on. If he gets irritated and starts taking offence, what else can you do except feeling pity about?
Brothers & Sisters, the matter of conspiracy against the unity of this nation must be reached to every person of all the societies. We must convince them about the matter of noosing the future of our children. And once they find it convenient, they will not stop. Then there will be reservations on the basis of religion everywhere. Reservation in the Municipalities, the Assembly, the Parliament… everywhere, they will end up making a parallel nation. Because they have already done this before. Those who did not shy in parting India in two pieces, do you think can they shy for anything else? They have divided Maa Bharati, how long they will take to divide the society? The hunger for power is always so intense that people can go to any extent for that, they just don’t care. Brothers & Sisters, I am also one of you, but am never ready to go on this path. My path is ‘Six Crore Gujaratis’. It is our collective responsibility to see that Gujarat moves ahead, no one in this Gujarat remains poor, no one in this Gujarat remains illiterate. But it is required to express indignation against all these mischief of breaking the society. And the only voice in our today’s convention is ‘STOP’. And Brothers & Sisters, only we can show the courage to fight against whosoever have committed this sin, whosoever have walked on the path of this sin.
Friends, throughout the country… The five states where elections are going to be held, everything is frozen. SP people are saying that we will give much more than this, BSP people are saying that we would give even more… There the competition is of this only. Friends, on the one side there are people who want to break the nation, and on the other side, there are people who want to unite the nation. And Friends, this is such a battle that it will add to our unity, it is my belief, that it will unite our strengths. And others who do not belong to Bakshi Panch would also join us because this battle is for the truth. Friends, how harmful it is going to be? Well, the Indian Government, till now Tech Note never came to their mind. But as soon as this reservation issue was settled down, they immediately announced about the Tech Note to accommodate those people. Why it did not come to your mind a week ago? They were knowing that once these Bakshi Panch people are managed… And Friends, there are all the communities, all the sects in Bakshi Panch. It is a system for the welfare of everybody on the basis of poverty. And look at the society, there is no hatred for this system. People have comprehended that let 27% reservation pass on to Bakshi Panch, let they be benefited, the society has digested this. Now you are trying to instigate a tumultuous situation. Now you have started the game of throwing away the unwanted people like a squeezed sugar cane. Friends, there could not be any bigger treachery and that is why the anger has to be expressed. If the communities come together, if the society unanimously opposes this, if the village collectively resolves… write to the President, the Prime Minister… this fight must not stop at any cost. Friend, I bet that the game that they have played for the political mileage, the same will become the cause for their death..! Their fraudulent steps to destroy the society would destroy themselves. This is my belief, I can clearly see this, Friends..! They don’t know how big the mistake they have committed is. And this country will never tolerate any such activity to destroy the nation. Friends, and therefore I consider this convention as a commendable effort to save the nation.
Friends, this is not any vote bank politics, this is not any game of power. This is an act of intense patriotism, an act of social integration, an act to accomplish the Mantra, ‘Participation by all, for development of all’. This is the best way to reach ‘Sadbhavna’ to every house. We want to bury the vote bank politics. The ‘Sadbhavna Mission’ has been undertaken to ring the death bell of vote bank politics. How perplexed they must be feeling… how irritated they are… Just see! ‘Sadbhavna Mission’ is an absolutely pure and moralistic program. We simply go and extend our salutation… Now if this also becomes unbearable, what can we do? This ‘Sadbhavna Mission’ is like homeopathic tablets. The speciality of the homeopathic tablets is that if it starts affecting, then initially the disease becomes refractory. On that symptom it is judged that now the drug is affecting..! That means that the drug of ‘Sadbhavna Mission’ is properly affecting. Friends, they know that their death bell is certainly going to ring. The end of the vote bank politics will begin from Gujarat. The foundation of the politics of development will do good to the nation. The Mantra, ‘Participation by all, for development of all’, is beneficent to all. All the six crore Gujaratis are our presiding deity and we are working for their well being.
Today we have got information on so many subjects. Friends, so many developmental works for Bakshi Panch have been done, Budget has been increased. The exertion is to see that the last person does not remain behind. How fast the plot allotment work has been finished? We have completed more works than done in the last 50 years. Because we want to bring everybody on the same level, afterwards everybody will take the lead in the race. This effort is to take those together who have remained behind. This struggle has to be reached up to the people. Friends, go with the determination today itself. This is the fight for our rights, we can not afford to sit idly. Prepare youth organizations of every community. Bring these organizations to the field, entrust them the duty. If we confidently move ahead with firm determination for the truth, to finish the politics of vote bank, Brothers & Sisters, the victory is certain. Be assured that the Government sitting in Delhi will have to stop. If they won’t stop, the people of this country will root them out. This game will no longer work in this country, though you have done as many in the past. We were not capable enough when you played the game, today our existence is such that we can stop you from doing so. We have come out for the unity. Friends, no activity that breaks the society can do any good to the nation. The power play may serve the purpose for some, but it is not a good thing for the nation. Brothers & Sisters, this is really a big responsibility for all of us. Let us go out with a determination, explain the situation to the ladies of every community by arranging separate meetings, try to reach the issue to every house… I tell you, in no time, they will be frightened and the Delhi Government will become cautious..!
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi arrived in Herat, Afghanistan on the first leg of his 5 nation tour. PM will jointly inaugurate the Afghanistan-India Friendship Dam with President Ashraf Ghani at Herat.
Upon arrival, the PM tweeted, “Reached Herat in Afghanistan. Will attend the programme for inauguration of Salma Dam and meet President Ashraf Ghani.
Reached Herat in Afghanistan. Will attend the programme for inauguration of Salma Dam & meet President @ashrafghani. pic.twitter.com/rKTNxUt3sL
